.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

************
Introduction
************

Pynopticon allows you to do object recognition (finding out if there
is a certain object anywhere on the image) following a Bag of Features
(BoF) approach. This approach is well established in the computer
vision community, yields good overall results and is applicable to a
wide range of object recognition problems.

The project was financially supported by the Karl-Steinbuch-Stipendoum
(http://www.karl-steinbuch-stipendium.de/ ) Karl-Steinbuch-Stipendium]
awarded to Thomas Wiecki from the MFG-Stiftung
Badenw√ºrttemberg (http://www.mfg.de/ ).

========================
Bag of Features approach
========================

The BoF approach works in essence by extracting various features from
an image. Commonly used features are either global (e.g. Color
Histogram on the whole image) or local (e.g. extracting Regions of
Interest (RoI) and transforming them (one example of this approach is
SIFT - Scale Invariant Feature Transform)).

In the next step these features can be clustered according to their
similarity under the assumption that classes of features provide
information about the contents of an image. For example when
classifying images of animals one might extract many local features
with just eyes on them, all these eyes are then grouped together
during the clustering. So when you then have a new image where there
are lots of extracted features in the eye category it is likely that
there is an animal in the picture. Looking up in what cluster a
feature lies is called 'quantization'. Counting how many features lie
in a certain cluster results in a histogram. In sum, the result of all
this processing is one histogram per image.

The next step in the object recognition pipeline is to train a
classifier that detects which histogram pattern is likely to belong to
a certain object category. Training this classifier can now be done
with standard and well established machine learning algorithms, like a
Support Vector Machine (SVM) or a Decision Tree.

==========
Motivation
==========

The motivation behind the development of Pynopticon is to make object
recognition more accesible. During a university project I trained a
classifier using the BoF approach and was suprised by how standardized
it was, yet, how difficult it was to code all the individual steps and
how they interact. To spare you duplicating this effort I wrote
Pynopticon.

=================
Design Principles
=================

Pynopticon consists of a lot of individual modules which you can stick
together in any sensible way you like, this makes it possible to
create the object recognition pipeline which works best for your task.

Because working with large databases of images can use an excessive
amount of memory Pynopticon was designed with memory efficiency in
mind. By using functional programming paradigms data is only stored in
memory and computed when it is really needed. However, the user can
also choose to save the computed data so that when you want to try out
a few things nothing has to be recomputed.

To make Pynopticon more accessible you can use it in combination with
the excellent Orange Toolbox (http://www.ailab.si/orange/) which
provides a sophisticated GUI, lots of machine learning algorithms and
nice visualization features.
