#summary How to install Pynopticon and make it work together with Orange

= Building and Installing =

You have two options in downloading and installing Pynopticon. Your first choice should be to use easy_install, the alternative way is the traditional download.

== Windows ==
=== Installation of the base package (no GUI) ===
 # If not already installed, download and install Python 2.5.x available from [http://python.org/download/ http://python.org] (Python 2.6 is not yet supported)
 # If not already installed, download and install the following dependencies: [http://numpy.scipy.org numpy], [http://www.scipy.org scipy] and [http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/ PIL]
 # Download the Pynopticon windows installer from the download section and start it.
 # Since this will install only the libraries you may want to install Orange as well to get a GUI. For this follow the instructions "Additional installation of the GUI" below.

=== Additional installation of the GUI  ===

  # Follow the steps from 'Basic install' for your OS
  # Download and install the [http://www.ailab.si/orange/ Orange Toolbox] (make sure to use the Qt4 version daily-snapshot, *not* version 1.0) following the installation instructions from the Orange website (Orange is available for Windows and Linux).
  # In order to make Orange find out about Pynopticon run the python script 'link_to_orange.py' from C:\python25\lib\site-packages\pynopticon (this copies the widgets directory from the Pynopticon base directory into the OrangeWidgets dir of Orange)
  # When you then start Orange there should be a new tab in the toolbar named 'Pynopticon'

== Linux ==

=== Installation of the base package (no GUI) ===

  # If not already installed, install Python 2.5 (available in your packet manager)
  # Download Pynopticon from the download section.
  # Unpack it.
  # Run 'setup.py build' and 'setup.py install'.

=== Additional installation of the GUI  ===

  # Follow the steps from 'Basic install' for your OS
  # Download and install the [http://www.ailab.si/orange/ Orange Toolbox] (make sure to use the Qt4 version daily-snapshot with extensions, *not* version 1.0) following the installation instructions from the Orange website (Orange is available for Windows and Linux).
  # In order to make Orange find out about Pynopticon run the python script 'link_to_orange.py' from /usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/pynopticon (this copies the widgets directory from the Pynopticon base directory into the OrangeWidgets dir of Orange)
  # When you then start Orange there should be a new tab in the toolbar named 'Pynopticon'

=== (Additional) Compile additional feature extractors ===

Included in Pynopticon are feature extractors written by Sebastian Nowozin. They should compile fine under Linux (dependencies include [http://kogs-www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/~koethe/vigra/ Vigra] and the [http://www.boost.org/ Boost C++ Libraries]). 
 # Change directory to pynopticon/src/featureLib
 # Call make.sh
 # When all dependencies are installed everything should compile fine.
 # Copy the executable pynopticon/src/featureLib/regcovextract/regcovextract into the bin subdirectory of your pynopticon installation (Linux: /usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/pynopticon, Windows: c:\Python2.5\).

(*If you manage to compile the source under windows please send me an e-mail with the binary!*)